README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ReactiveX/RxJS.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ReactiveX/RxJS)

# RxJS Next (pre-alpha)

Reactive Extensions Library for JavaScript

[Apache 2.0 License](LICENSE.txt)

## Important

By contributing or commenting on issues in this repository, whether you've read them or not, you're agreeing to the [Contributor Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). Much like traffic laws, ignorance doesn't grant you immunity.

## Installation

```sh
npm install @reactivex/rxjs
```

## Goals

- Provide better performance than preceding versions of RxJS
- To model/follow the [ES7 Observable Spec](https://github.com/zenparsing/es-observable) to the observable.
- Provide more modular file structure in a variety of formats
- Provide more debuggable call stacks than preceding versions of RxJS

## Building/Testing

The build and test structure is fairly primitive at the moment. There are various npm scripts that can be run:

- build_es6: Transpiles the TypeScript files from `src/` to `dist/es6`
- build_cjs: Transpiles the ES6 files from `dist/es6` to `dist/cjs`
- build_amd: Transpiles the ES6 files from `dist/es6` to `dist/amd`
- build_global: Transpiles/Bundles the CommonJS files from `dist/cjs` to `dist/global/Rx.js`
- build_all: Performs all of the above in the proper order.
- build_test: builds ES6, then CommonJS, then runs the tests with `jasmine`
- build_perf: builds ES6, CommonJS, then global, then runs the performance tests with `protractor`
- test: runs tests with `jasmine`, must have built prior to running.

### Example

```sh
# build all the things!
npm run build_all
```

## Performance Tests

First you'll need to host the root directory under a web server, the simplest way to do that is to install `http-server` with `npm i -g http-server`,
then start it in the home directory. After that you can run `npm run build_perf` or `npm run perf` to run the performance tests with `protractor` (which also
needs to be globally installed)

### Prerequisites
Running the performance tests requires `protractor` globally installed and an http server of some sort. `http-server` the node module
will work:

```sh
npm i -g protractor http-server
```

Commit message:

docs(usage): add basic node.js usage information

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ReactiveX/RxJS.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ReactiveX/RxJS)

# RxJS Next (pre-alpha)

Reactive Extensions Library for JavaScript

[Apache 2.0 License](LICENSE.txt)

## Important

By contributing or commenting on issues in this repository, whether you've read them or not, you're agreeing to the [Contributor Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). Much like traffic laws, ignorance doesn't grant you immunity.

## Installation and Usage

To install this library via [npm](https://www.npmjs.org), use the following command:

```sh
npm install @reactivex/rxjs
```

#### Node.js Usage:

```js
var Rx = require('@reactivex/rxjs');

Rx.Observable.of('hello world')
  .subscribe(function(x) { console.log(x); });
```

## Goals

- Provide better performance than preceding versions of RxJS
- To model/follow the [ES7 Observable Spec](https://github.com/zenparsing/es-observable) to the observable.
- Provide more modular file structure in a variety of formats
- Provide more debuggable call stacks than preceding versions of RxJS

## Building/Testing

The build and test structure is fairly primitive at the moment. There are various npm scripts that can be run:

- build_es6: Transpiles the TypeScript files from `src/` to `dist/es6`
- build_cjs: Transpiles the ES6 files from `dist/es6` to `dist/cjs`
- build_amd: Transpiles the ES6 files from `dist/es6` to `dist/amd`
- build_global: Transpiles/Bundles the CommonJS files from `dist/cjs` to `dist/global/Rx.js`
- build_all: Performs all of the above in the proper order.
- build_test: builds ES6, then CommonJS, then runs the tests with `jasmine`
- build_perf: builds ES6, CommonJS, then global, then runs the performance tests with `protractor`
- test: runs tests with `jasmine`, must have built prior to running.

### Example

```sh
# build all the things!
npm run build_all
```

## Performance Tests

First you'll need to host the root directory under a web server, the simplest way to do that is to install `http-server` with `npm i -g http-server`,
then start it in the home directory. After that you can run `npm run build_perf` or `npm run perf` to run the performance tests with `protractor` (which also
needs to be globally installed)

### Prerequisites
Running the performance tests requires `protractor` globally installed and an http server of some sort. `http-server` the node module
will work:

```sh
npm i -g protractor http-server
```
